tehybug_co2_firmware/README.md, before:

# TeHyBug CO2 Sensor Firmware

TeHyBug firmware for SCD4X and Senseair S8 sensor with support for OLED Display and additional external sensors like AHT10 and BMX280.

## Features:
- OLED Display support
- RGB indication for normal (green), medium (yellow) and high (red) CO2 level
- HomeAssistant (https://www.home-assistant.io/) MQTT Autodiscovery mode (just provide the mqtt brocker ip and the device will appear in your HA)
- Web Server for OTA Updates, simply upload new firmware versions via web interface
- Web Server that serves the sensor data in Json Format
- Possible to turn off WIFI and work in offline display only mode (Hit reset and hold the Button IO_5 when you see the TeHyBug logo, once the LED turns purple, release the button). To find out that the wifi is on, there will be a small dot on the right side of the display with sensordata
- Hold the mode button for 15 seconds to factory reset your device and delete  the wifi configuration


TeHyBug Mini CO2 SCD4X Enclosure for 3D Printing is available on Thingiverse: https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:5494215

## How to calibrate the CO2 sensor
SCD4X sensor has an automatic calibration and usually doesnt need to be calibrated.
The senseair s8 needs sometimes a manual calibration. Hold the right button on the back for 15 Seconds, then release the button and the calibration will start. Put the sensor outside on the fresh air and wait, the calibration will be finished after 7 minutes. 

## How to program/flash the board
To flash firmware use the .esp8285.bin file.
For flashing and programming you can use ARDUINO IDE, select there generic ESP8285 board.
Also you can use the [ESPTool](https://github.com/espressif/esptool) to flash binaries to the board or other tools which are described at: https://nodemcu.readthedocs.io/en/latest/flash/

## Upload new firmware via web interface

To update the firmware from OTA WebInterface open http://tehybug.local/update in your browser, if this doesnt work, try to find out its IP from your router admin menu or use any local network ip scanner app for your mobile phone to get the device ip and then open http://<ip_address<ip address>>/update with your browser.

To show the temperature in Fahrenheit instead of Celsius, open http://tehybug.local/config or http://<ip_address<ip address>>/config with your browser to save the configuration.

For the update page you will have to provide a username and a password:
  
Username: TeHyBug
  
Password: FreshAirMakesSense
 
## Pinmapping
  
<img src="https://github.com/gumslone/tehybug/blob/master/tehybug_co2_firmware/images/3.5mm_jack_plug_4i.svg_mapping.jpg?raw=true" width="300">

## HomeAssistant
<img src="https://github.com/gumslone/tehybug/blob/master/tehybug_co2_firmware/images/ha.png?raw=true" width="600">

## 3D Printed enclosure
TeHyBug Mini CO2 enclosure for 3D printing is available on Thingiverse: https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:5494215

An enclosure for a larger version of the sensor is in design process and will be published soon.

## Configuration first steps
- Connect external sensor to the board 3,5mm audio jack connector.
- Connect the power supply to micro USB port
- TeHyBug will boot, the led will turn blue and the logo will appear on the display (if display is available)
- Connect to a TeHyBug wifi network like the image below
- <img src="https://github.com/gumslone/tehybug/blob/master/tehybug_co2_firmware/images/wifi.png?raw=true" width="600">
- open http://192.168.4.1/ in your browser, and click the configuration button
- <img src="https://github.com/gumslone/tehybug/blob/master/tehybug_co2_firmware/images/config.png?raw=true">

Commit message:

added enclosure link for senseair s8 sensor

tehybug_co2_firmware/README.md, after:

# TeHyBug CO2 Sensor Firmware

TeHyBug firmware for SCD4X and Senseair S8 sensor with support for OLED Display and additional external sensors like AHT10 and BMX280.

## Features:
- OLED Display support
- RGB indication for normal (green), medium (yellow) and high (red) CO2 level
- HomeAssistant (https://www.home-assistant.io/) MQTT Autodiscovery mode (just provide the mqtt brocker ip and the device will appear in your HA)
- Web Server for OTA Updates, simply upload new firmware versions via web interface
- Web Server that serves the sensor data in Json Format
- Possible to turn off WIFI and work in offline display only mode (Hit reset and hold the Button IO_5 when you see the TeHyBug logo, once the LED turns purple, release the button). To find out that the wifi is on, there will be a small dot on the right side of the display with sensordata
- Hold the mode button for 15 seconds to factory reset your device and delete  the wifi configuration


TeHyBug Mini CO2 SCD4X Enclosure for 3D Printing is available on Thingiverse: https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:5494215
TeHyBug Senseait S8 CO2 Enclosure for 3D Printing is available on Thingiverse: https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:5505674

## How to calibrate the CO2 sensor
SCD4X sensor has an automatic calibration and usually doesnt need to be calibrated.
The senseair s8 needs sometimes a manual calibration. Hold the right button on the back for 15 Seconds, then release the button and the calibration will start. Put the sensor outside on the fresh air and wait, the calibration will be finished after 7 minutes. 

## How to program/flash the board
To flash firmware use the .esp8285.bin file.
For flashing and programming you can use ARDUINO IDE, select there generic ESP8285 board.
Also you can use the [ESPTool](https://github.com/espressif/esptool) to flash binaries to the board or other tools which are described at: https://nodemcu.readthedocs.io/en/latest/flash/

## Upload new firmware via web interface

To update the firmware from OTA WebInterface open http://tehybug.local/update in your browser, if this doesnt work, try to find out its IP from your router admin menu or use any local network ip scanner app for your mobile phone to get the device ip and then open http://<ip_address<ip address>>/update with your browser.

To show the temperature in Fahrenheit instead of Celsius, open http://tehybug.local/config or http://<ip_address<ip address>>/config with your browser to save the configuration.

For the update page you will have to provide a username and a password:
  
Username: TeHyBug
  
Password: FreshAirMakesSense
 
## Pinmapping
  
<img src="https://github.com/gumslone/tehybug/blob/master/tehybug_co2_firmware/images/3.5mm_jack_plug_4i.svg_mapping.jpg?raw=true" width="300">

## HomeAssistant
<img src="https://github.com/gumslone/tehybug/blob/master/tehybug_co2_firmware/images/ha.png?raw=true" width="600">

## 3D Printed enclosure
TeHyBug Mini CO2 enclosure for 3D printing is available on Thingiverse: https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:5494215

An enclosure for a larger version of the sensor is in design process and will be published soon.

## Configuration first steps
- Connect external sensor to the board 3,5mm audio jack connector.
- Connect the power supply to micro USB port
- TeHyBug will boot, the led will turn blue and the logo will appear on the display (if display is available)
- Connect to a TeHyBug wifi network like the image below
- <img src="https://github.com/gumslone/tehybug/blob/master/tehybug_co2_firmware/images/wifi.png?raw=true" width="600">
- open http://192.168.4.1/ in your browser, and click the configuration button
- <img src="https://github.com/gumslone/tehybug/blob/master/tehybug_co2_firmware/images/config.png?raw=true">
